Graph.hls: A Compiler Framework for Composable
Graph Accelerator Design
ISCA 2026 Submission #1378 – Confidential Draft – Do NOT Distribute!!

Develop
Step

Verification

Design

Abstract—FPGAs offer superior performance for graph processing, but existing High-Level Synthesis (HLS) frameworks face
two critical bottlenecks: (1) optimization techniques scattered
across incompatible frameworks cannot be composed—a simple
16-bit data type change requires modifying 200+ lines across
10+ files, and (2) developers lack systematic validation tools,
forcing reliance on slow hardware emulation taking 50+ minutes
per iteration. We present Graph.hls, a domain-specific compiler
framework that addresses these challenges through hierarchical
abstraction and automated workflows. Graph.hls organizes graph
accelerator parameters into three levels by modification cost, enabling composition of multiple optimizations through unified configuration. Graph.hls’s GH-Architect automatically generates optimized hardware by propagating dependencies and performing
resource-aware code generation, while GH-Scope provides rapid
verification through IR-level simulation and baseline comparison,
completing validation in under 1 second. Our DSL naturally
expresses graph algorithms beyond the traditional GAS model,
and the hierarchical abstraction enables composing optimizations
across algorithms and FPGA platforms without manual code
integration. Evaluation shows Graph.hls achieves 2.6× average
speedup over ReGraph and 1.2× over ThunderGP with fair
parameter-matched comparison, and up to 4.5× speedup with
full multi-level design space exploration. GH-Scope accelerates
simulation by 301.6× over vendor C-Sim and reduces debugging
time by up to 455,000× over hardware emulation, enabling
composable, high-performance graph accelerator design.

Opt.1

Existing Ours
Opt.2

...

Opt.N

Opt.1
Cannot compose
all optimizations

Impl
HW Em.
Repeated emulation runs
for locating one bug

...
Opt.N

Compose
multiple
optimizations
at once

Check.1
Locate

Check.2
...

Check.N

Finish Time

Finish
Inefficient

Rapid
debug
loop

Efficient

Fig. 1: Workflow comparison between existing graph accelerator development and Graph.hls. Existing frameworks suffer
from two bottlenecks: inability to compose multiple optimizations due to implementation complexity, and slow verification requiring repeated hardware emulation runs. Graph.hls
addresses both through composable multi-level abstraction and
fast IR-level verification, transforming hours-long debugging
into sub-minute iterations.

from algorithmic descriptions in familiar languages like C++.
In theory, HLS automates the complex translation to hardware,
allowing domain experts to focus on algorithm design while
the toolchain handles RTL generation. This makes HLS an
attractive approach for building graph accelerators.
Despite these advantages, building high-performance graph
accelerators with HLS remains challenging. The core difficulty
lies not in a lack of optimization ideas, but in the absence of
a framework to systematically explore and validate them. We
identify two critical gaps:
Challenge 1: The Design Exploration Gap. Graph processing presents a richer design landscape shaped by both the
algorithm and the input graph’s characteristics. The research
community has made substantial progress exploring these optimizations: vertex property bitwidths adapted to value ranges,
memory hierarchies tuned to access patterns [4], partition
strategies and big-little pipeline configurations [3] tailored to
degree distributions. However, these optimizations exist as
isolated implementations, each deeply embedded within its
respective framework. A developer cannot easily combine the
techniques across multiple works. For example, the trade-off
of a 16-bit data path versus an 8-bit one is not a simple
configuration change. It is an invasive refactoring task spanning over 200 lines across 10+ files. Current HLS approaches
lack the abstraction layers that would allow developers to
compose, combine, and evaluate these known architectural

I. I NTRODUCTION
Graph processing is essential for many applications, including social network analysis, recommendation systems, and
scientific computing [1], [15]. As graphs continue to grow
in size and complexity [20], there is increasing demand for
high-performance energy-efficient graph processing solutions.
Conventional architectures like CPUs [22] and GPUs [25]
struggle with the irregular memory access patterns and datadependent parallelism of graph workloads. FPGAs are a compelling alternative, offering customizable memory hierarchies
and fine-grained parallelism that can be tailored to specific
graph algorithms. Recent FPGA accelerators [2]–[4], [29] have
demonstrated significant performance and efficiency gains over
CPUs and GPUs.
However, the primary drawback of FPGAs has always
been their challenging design process. Historically, developing
hardware required low-level Hardware Description Languages
(HDLs) like Verilog or VHDL. This Register Transfer Level
(RTL) design paradigm is time-consuming, error-prone, and
presents a steep learning curve, requiring significant hardware
expertise that most graph algorithm researchers do not possess.
High-Level Synthesis (HLS) tools have emerged as a higher
level of abstraction, allowing developers to specify hardware

1

455,000× over hardware emulation. Our DSL Graph.hls
Frontend provides expressiveness beyond the traditional GAS
model, and the compiler’s hierarchical abstraction makes optimizations composable across various graph algorithms and
distinct FPGA platforms. Our evaluation shows that Graph.hls
achieves 2.6× average speedup over ReGraph and 1.2× over
ThunderGP under fair parameter-matched comparison, and
up to 4.48× speedup when full multi-level design space
exploration is enabled.
This paper makes the following contributions:
• A hierarchical design abstraction that systematically organizes the graph accelerator design space by modification
cost, from graph basic constants to graph accelerator
strategies (Section III-A).
• GH-Architect, an automated design space exploration and
code generation engine that transforms DSL into optimized graph accelerator through dependency propagation
and resource-aware refinement (Section III-B2).
• GH-Scope, a fast IR-level simulation and validation
framework that enables sub-second verification cycles
with 301.6× speedup over vendor C-Sim, up to 455,000×
faster debugging than hardware emulation, and systematic
baseline comparison against validated reference implementations (Section III-B3).
• A comprehensive evaluation covering six graph algorithms across two distinct FPGA platforms, demonstrating 2.6× average speedup over ReGraph and 1.2× over
ThunderGP under fair comparison, up to 4.48× with full
multi-level design space exploration, 301.6× simulation
speedup over vendor C-Sim, and up to 455,000× debugging speedup over hardware emulation (Section V).
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II
provides background on graph processing and FPGA acceleration, and uses ReGraph as a case study to demonstrate
the two fundamental pitfalls in current graph accelerator
design workflows. Section III presents the Graph.hls overview,
introducing our hierarchical design abstraction and the automated generation and debugging workflow with GH-Architect
and GH-Scope. Section IV describes the implementation of
Graph.hls. Section V evaluates Graph.hls on productivity and
performance metrics. Section VI discusses related work, and
Section VII concludes

patterns systematically within a unified, flexible framework.
Challenge 2: The Verification and Debugging Gap. Graph
algorithms are difficult to debug and profile due to inherent
data dependence. For example, in shortest path algorithm,
changing one edge weight can lead to a different frontier
sequence, touching thousands of different vertices in a new
order. While there is a wide range of open-source wellvalidated implementations, current tools provide no systematic
way to leverage these implementations as correctness oracles, as performance baselines and as diagnostic references.
Developers are often forced into a slow and manual binary
search across the codebases. To locate the bug, they must: (1)
comment out a pipeline stage, (2) re-run the entire hardware
emulation to see if the bug disappears, and (3) repeat this
process iteratively, recompiling and re-emulating the entire
system for each step. Locating a single error requires hours of
waiting across multiple emulation runs.
These challenges exposes a common flaw in existing HLS
frameworks: the entanglement of algorithm, hardware, and
verification. Parameters controlling data types, memory configurations, and resource allocation are scattered across multiple
files without centralized management or validation. As a result,
developers cannot state what they want—a PageRank accelerator with heterogeneous pipelines and 16-bit properties—and
have the toolchain figure out how to build it. They are forced
to manually engineer every detail, an approach that fails to
scale with the complexity of the graph design space.
Our key insight is that graph accelerator development requires domain-specific parameterization at multiple abstraction
levels. Instead of manually modifying a rigid codebase, developers should declare their design intent—algorithm, configuration, and constraints—in a structured format. An intelligent
compiler can then automatically materialize this specification
into optimized, correct-by-construction hardware. It transforms
the development process from low-level engineering to highlevel design space exploration, closing the exploration and
verification gaps.
We present Graph.hls, a compiler framework that structures
graph accelerator development through multi-level abstraction,
code generation and verification. Graph.hls is built upon two
components: (1) a Hierarchical Design Abstraction that defines
design space by partitioning all tunable parameters—from
basic constants to high-level strategies, and (2) an Automated
Generation and Debugging Workflow that leverages this abstraction to enable rapid, correct-by-construction development.
The abstraction defines what can be tuned, while the workflow
defines how these abstractions are implemented and verified
through two engines: GH-Architect for automated hardware
generation with resource-aware design space exploration, and
GH-Scope for fast IR-level verification and simulation with
comprehensive systematic comparison.
Graph.hls delivers substantial productivity and performance
benefits. The same bit-width optimization that requires 200+
line changes in ReGraph needs only a single-line update
in Graph.hls. GH-Scope accelerates simulation by 301.6×
over vendor C-Sim and reduces debugging time by up to

II. BACKGROUND AND M OTIVATION
We examine limitations of existing HLS frameworks using
ReGraph [3], a state-of-the-art graph processing framework,
identifying two fundamental pitfalls that hinder productivity
in graph accelerator development.
A. Pitfall I: Tight coupling between graph semantics and
hardware implementation
Graph accelerator development faces an extremely large design space with many optimization opportunities. Past research
has demonstrated diverse optimization techniques scattered
across different frameworks [3], [4], [12], yet it’s very hard for
developers to compose these techniques from different works.

2

Node Property Type: ap_uint<32> to ap_uint<16>

B. Pitfall II: Slow verification cycles prevent rapid iteration

Host Changes

The complexity from Pitfall I makes bugs inevitable, yet
developers lack systematic tools for debugging. Graph algorithms present unique verification challenges: failures are datadependent, manifesting only on graphs with specific topological characteristics. Even though developers can compare
their implementation against existing frameworks to identify
divergence points and validate correctness, no systematic
comparison mechanism exists. Instead, they must manually
instrument both their code and baseline implementations, then
correlate results across expensive hardware emulation runs.
Consider implementing the 16-bit conversion from Pitfall
I. Testing on a small uniform random graph (graph500scale19 [19], 500K vertices) produces correct distances. However, testing on a real-world social network (LiveJournal [14],
4.8M vertices) yields incorrect results: some vertices show
distances exceeding graph diameter while others remain at
infinity despite being reachable.
The bug is indirect: when graph diameter exceeds 65535,
distances overflow and wrap around. A vertex at true distance
65540 wraps to 4 and wrong distances propagates throughout
the graph. On small uniform graphs (diameter < 1000),
overflow never occurs. On large networks (diameter > 100K
due to long chains), overflow corrupts the results for thousands
of vertices. Some reachable vertices remain at infinity distance
because their predecessors’ distances equal the maximum
value and are therefore treated as unreachable. This datadependent failure pattern is characteristic of graph algorithm
bugs: code works on some topologies and fails on others
depending on structural properties.
Debugging this requires comparing intermediate results
between the 16-bit implementation and a validated 32-bit
baseline. However, C-Sim’s sequential execution model hangs
on ReGraph’s concurrent pipeline architecture, and it cannot
model finite stream depths or detect deadlocks. Developers
must instead rely on hardware emulation (Co-Sim), requiring
∼50 minutes per iteration. As Figure 1 illustrates, locating a
single bug requires multiple Co-Sim iterations of instrumentation and binary search, consuming hours in total.
Beyond slow debugging, two verification gaps exist: (1)
late-stage routing failures from cross-SLR congestion appear
only after >3-hour synthesis runs, and (2) no rapid algorithm
correctness validation exists independently from hardware
synthesis. This forces a “synthesize and hope” workflow where
expensive runs proceed without correctness confidence.
These examples highlight that graph accelerator development faces dual verification challenges absent in traditional
HLS. First, graph algorithm correctness must be validated
across diverse topologies with different structural properties.
Second, graph-specific hardware constraints must be validated Without addressing both challenges, developers face
prohibitively slow iteration where bugs appear after expensive
Co-Sim and synthesis. And some of them cannot be diagnosed
without expert FPGA knowledge.

#define MAX_I 2147483647
#define MAX_I 32767

algorithm constants

Kernel Changes
typedef ap_uint<32> prop_t
typedef ap_uint<16> prop_t

data types
cacheline_idx = src[i] >> 4
cacheline_idx = src[i] >> 5

cache index calculation
a.range(31 + (i << 5), i << 5)
a.range(15 + (i << 4), i << 4)

data packing

Gather
Func

bit-level packing logic

Gather
Func

URAM word
choose logic

Fig. 2: The cascade of changes required for a 32-to-16-bit
data type modification in ReGraph. A single logical change
requires invasive modifications across over 10 files and 200+
lines of code, spanning data definitions, packing logic, kernel
dataflow, computation constants, and host code.

Consider optimizing Single-Source Shortest Path (SSSP) for
road networks. Initially using 32-bit distance values (≤ 2.1 ×
109 km), analysis reveals 16-bit integers suffice (≤ 65535 km).
This optimization doubles memory bandwidth utilization and
on-chip vertex property cache sizes, increases throughput for
high-degree vertices dominating execution.
Ideally, this should require only a simple parameter change.
However, in ReGraph, this modification cascades across the
graph processing dataflow, as shown in Figure 2. The graph
property structures require updating definitions in vertex arrays, edge properties, and message types across header files;
HBM packing logic needs bit-range recalculations in locations
spanning host-side graph loading, device-side reads, scatter
writes, and processing pipelines; gather dataflow requires
adjusting vertices number per cycle, propagating through
neighbor buffer sizes, reduction trees, and scatter interfaces;
algorithm constants need updating maximum distance from
2, 147, 483, 647 to 32, 767 across initialization, termination
detection, and relaxation conditions; host-device transfers require modifying allocation sizes, padding boundaries , and
verification unpacking logic.
This lack of abstraction prevents developers from composing multiple optimizations together. A developer wanting
to combine 16-bit optimization with a new partition strategy cannot simply merge these techniques—each requires
incompatible code structures. Instead, developers must choose
one optimization path and manually implement it, losing the
potential benefits of combining complementary techniques.
The design space is very large, yet past designs remain locked
in separate, non-composable codebases.
These limitations are compounded by framework-specific
assumptions about memory resources, pipeline architectures,
and algorithm models that prevent merging optimizations
across sources. Without composable abstractions, developers
face a harsh choice: implement only one technique, or attempt
prohibitively expensive manual integration across incompatible frameworks.

3

Algorithm
Analysis

GH. DSL

L3: Graph
Strategies

Dependency
Propagation

Param
Specification

L2: MicroArch.
Config

ResourceAware
Modeling

FPGA
Information

L1: Graph
Constants

Automatic
Maximization

GH-Architect

User Inputs

Hierarchical
Design Abstraction

Automatic
Validation

Algorithm
Simulation
User
Modification

Type
Checking

Circular
Dep. Check

Rapid
Debug
Loop

Resource
Constaint

Dataflow
Verification

Baseline
Comparison

Implementation &
Routing Advice

GH-Scope

DSE Loop

SW
Level

HW
Level

Fig. 3: Overview of Graph.hls.

III. G RAPH . HLS OVERVIEW

bitwidths, graph partitioning strategies, pipeline configurations, memory hierarchies, and scheduling policies. Past research has proposed valuable optimization techniques scattered
across different frameworks. However, these optimization designs are not composable. In ReGraph [3] alone, parameters
scatter across 5 makefiles, 21 headers and 14 source files
with complex dependencies, making integration with other
frameworks’ techniques prohibitively expensive.
To enable composing multiple optimization strategies, we
organize this graph-specific design space through a hierarchical design abstraction classifying parameters by modification
cost in traditional HLS frameworks: Level 1 (Graph Processing
Constants) for single-line algorithm behavior changes, Level
2 (Graph Algorithm Configuration) for multi-file propagation
through graph data structures, and Level 3 (Graph Architecture Strategies) for complete graph processing pipeline
redesign. This cost-based hierarchy transforms unstructured,
non-composable optimization attempts into systematic, automatable workflow enabling merging techniques from multiple sources, as illustrated in Figure 4.
1) Level 1: Graph Processing Constants: Level 1 parameters control graph algorithm execution without changing
hardware dataflow structure. These affect how vertices and
edges are processed—vertex property initialization, convergence thresholds, active vertex filtering threshold—but not
pipeline organization or memory hierarchy. Modifications remain isolated within graph processing kernels without propagating through bit-packing logic or memory interfaces. Representative parameters include: vertex property initial values
(PageRank’s initial rank 1.0/|V |, SSSP’s initial distance +∞),
convergence threshold (ε determining when iterative algorithms terminate), and active vertex filtering threshold (minimum degree for ”big” versus ”little” pipeline assignment).
The key characteristic is graph-semantic locality: they
change what values flow through the processing pipeline but
not how the pipeline processes them. For example, modifying
the active vertex filtering threshold—the little-big partition
ratio determining which vertices route to high-throughput little
pipelines versus big pipelines—directly impacts load balance
across heterogeneous processing units. However, this modifi-

To realize the composable design paradigm proposed in
Section II, we present Graph.hls. The Graph.hls workflow is
built upon two integral components designed to systematically
address the productivity bottlenecks identified in Section II.
As illustrated in Figure 3, these components are: (1) a novel
Hierarchical Design Abstraction that structures the vast and
chaotic HLS design space, and (2) an Automated Generation
and Debugging Workflow that leverages this abstraction to
enable rapid, correct-by-construction development. The abstraction layer defines what optimizations can be composed,
partitioning all parameters by their modification cost. The
automation workflow defines how these compositions are
implemented and verified, leveraging two key engines to
concretely resolve the fundamental pitfalls of monolithic HLS
frameworks:
GH-Architect solves the Design Exploration Gap (Pitfall
I). In monolithic designs, merging optimizations—such as 16bit data types and custom partitioning—requires invasive manual integration across incompatible codebases. GH-Architect
addresses this by automatically generating unified hardware
from multiple optimization specifications, enabling developers
to merge strategies from different research works through
configuration rather than manual refactoring.
GH-Scope solves the Verification Gap (Pitfall II). Traditional flows force developers to rely on slow hardware emulation without systematic validation tools. GH-Scope addresses
this by enabling rapid reference comparison, allowing developers to compare their user implementations against validated
reference codes in seconds instead of hours. By verifying
intermediate results against a trusted reference, GH-Scope
detects divergence points and implementation risks early.
Together, these components transform isolated, noncomposable optimization implementations into systematic
composition and validation workflows.
A. A Hierarchical Design Abstraction
The design space for graph accelerators is large, encompassing numerous optimization opportunities: vertex/edge property

4

High
Level

L3: Graph
Strategies
L2: Graph MicroArch Config

Low
Level

L1: Graph Processing Constants
Abstraction Level

Program
Structure

Graph Partition Method
Partition Assignment
Property Bit Width

with other designs because these frameworks make mutually incompatible architectural assumptions. ReGraph assumes
two-class big-little partitioning with shared destination sets,
ThunderGP assumes single unified partition with elaborate vertex caching, and GraphLily assumes overlay-based reconfigurable processing. Developers wanting to combine ReGraph’s
benefits with another strategy face complete architectural redesign—no composition mechanism exists at this fundamental
level.
Consider the graph partition strategy as an example. ReGraph employs a fixed two-class partitioning strategy: dense
partitions processed by all little pipelines and sparse partitions processed by all big pipelines. Critically, all pipelines
within each class share the same destination node set—all
little pipelines process one partition with 65, 536 destination nodes, while all big pipelines process another partition
with 524, 288 destination nodes. This rigid design creates
severe load imbalance across diverse graph topologies. For
sparse graphs, big pipelines are underutilized since they all
process the same limited destination set when they could
independently handle different partitions with many nodes.
Conversely, for large dense graphs where the single 65, 536node partition is insufficient, if half the little pipelines can
handle this shared partition, the remaining half underutilized.
To address these limitations, we generalize the partition logic
to allow arbitrary partition classes, where each class processes
independent destination node sets using configurable pipeline
counts. This modification requires major changes affecting
over 1, 000 lines of code across both FPGA kernels and host
code: generalizing the partition preprocessor from 2 to N
classes, adjusting destination buffer sizes per class, generating
variable pipeline counts, creating N independent mergers
instead of 2 shared ones, updating host code for multi-class
scheduling, and modifying host-side memory allocation and
data transfer logic to handle variable partition configurations.
The host code changes are particularly significant at Level
3. While Level 1 and Level 2 modifications primarily affect
FPGA kernel code with minimal host-side changes, Level
3 dataflow strategy changes require substantial host code
modifications. For the partition strategy example, the host
must: allocate different HBM buffers for each partition class,
schedule data transfers coordinating multiple partition classes,
track partition boundaries and vertex mappings across classes,
and synchronize pipeline execution across heterogeneous processing units. These host-side modifications are tightly coupled
with the FPGA dataflow organization—changing from 2-class
to N -class partitioning requires rewriting host scheduling logic
to coordinate variable numbers of partition classes, each with
different resource assignments and execution characteristics.
In Graph.hls, specifying partition strategy with class definitions causes GH-Architect to generate appropriate multipartition architecture automatically. This enables composing
different architectural strategies from past works: the generalized partition strategy can be composed with other strategies
without strict restrictions. The key characteristic is systemwide impact—L3 changes fundamentally alter both FPGA

Complex

Kernel
Function

Edge Representation
Parallel Num
Property Initial Values
Vertex Filtering Threshold

Define

Simple

Change Required

Fig. 4: The hierarchical design abstraction organizing graph
accelerator parameters by modification cost. L1 requires
single-line changes, L2 demands multi-file propagation, L3 necessitates complete redesign. Deeper shading indicates higher
cost and broader impact.
cation is isolated within the partitioning logic without affecting
memory interfaces, data packing, or overall pipeline structure.
This isolation enables developers to iterate using GH-Scope’s
fast simulation without invoking full HLS toolchain, providing
sub-minute feedback loops.
2) Level 2: Graph Microarchitecture Configuration: Level
2 parameters expose graph data structure and processing
configurations that propagate through the entire accelerator.
Unlike Level 1’s isolated changes, Level 2 affects how graph
vertices, edges, and properties are represented in memory,
packed for burst transfers, and processed per cycle. Representative parameters include: vertex property bit width (16-bit vs
32-bit distances in SSSP, interacting with graph value ranges),
edge property representation (whether edges carry weights,
affecting CSR structure and fetch logic), and parallel number
(parallel compute units requiring replicated vertex caches and
edge buffers).
As shown in Section II-A (Figure 2), even a simple bitwidth change (32-bit to 16-bit) triggers 200+ line modifications across 10+ files. GH-Architect automates this: L2
operates within fixed dataflow structures, so the pipeline
remains constant while internal modules adapt, and setting
one configuration parameter propagates all cascading changes
automatically.
3) Level 3: Graph Dataflow Strategies: Level 3 parameters
represent fundamental dataflow decisions about how graphs
are decomposed, distributed, and processed across FPGA
resources. These determine the top-level graph processing
model affecting every component from preprocessing to aggregation, including both FPGA kernel organization and hostside coordination code. Unlike Level 1 (tuning behavior) and
Level 2 (configuring microarchitecture), Level 3 changes alter
fundamental assumptions about the entire processing pipeline.
Representative parameters include: graph partitioning strategy
(how vertices/edges are distributed across processing pipelines,
affecting load balance and memory access patterns); vertexcentric versus edge-centric execution model (affecting memory
access patterns, pipeline organization, and load balancing);
and partition assignment to FPGA resources (SLR and HBM
channel mapping affecting routing and bandwidth).
Critically, ReGraph’s partition strategy cannot be merged

5

(a) PageRank algorithm in Graph.hls DSL.

VF_THRES

L2: Graph MicroArch. Conf.
(SSSP Distance)

1 - VF_THRES

PROP_W=32

PROP_W=16

0x0 = 0

0x0 = 0

65530

0xFFFA = 65530 0xFFFA = 65530

72
10

Dense

Sparse

Little Ppl.

Big Ppl.

HierarchicalParam {
L1: { VF_thrhd: 0.5}
}

L3: Graph Strategies

...

0x48 = 72

0x48 = 72

0x48 = 72

0x4 = 4

0xFFFFFFFF
= Unreachable

0xFFFF
= Unreachable

GraphConfig {
Node: { dist: int<16> }
}

2 Partitions

3 Partitions
Big
Ppl.

Pipelines

L1: Graph Constants

Graph Optimization

GraphConfig {
Node:{ rank:float out_deg:int<32> }
Edge:{}
}
HierarchicalParam {
L1:{ URAM_SIZE:262144 }
L3:{ pipe_partition:[{type:big, number:2},
{type:little, number:3}] }
}
Iteration {
edges=iteration_input(G.EDGES)
dst_ids=map([edges], lambda e: e.dst)
contribs=map([edges], lambda e: e.src.rank)
summed=reduce(key=dst_ids, values=[contribs],
function=lambda x,y: x+y)
new_rank=map([summed],
lambda r: 0.15+0.85*(r/self.out_deg))
return new_rank as result_node_prop.rank
}

Modification

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Little
Ppl.
524k Sparse
65k Dense

524k Sparse
2 × 65k Dense

L3:{ pipe_partition: [
{type: big, number: 2},
{type: little, number: 3},
{type: little, number: 3},
]}

(b) Example graph optimizations and corresponding code changes using Graph.hls
abstraction.

Fig. 5: Graph.hls’s front-end and abstractions.

these challenges through an automated workflow that enables
rapid development of graph accelerator design. This workflow
consists of two key components: GH-Architect for automatic
code generation and GH-Scope for fast verification. Together,
these components transform our structured parameter space
into a practical development flow: GH-Architect turns configuration changes into working hardware code, while GH-Scope
catches errors early before any slow hardware synthesis begins.
[S1]
1) Domain-Specific Graph.hls Frontend Interface: Unlike
existing frameworks that restrict expressiveness through rigid
models like GAS (Gather-Apply-Scatter), Graph.hls provides a
DSL (Graph.hls Frontend) with rich stream-based functional
primitives. This Graph.hls Frontend naturally supports complex graph processing patterns that cannot be expressed in
traditional abstractions, including algorithms with irregular
dataflow such as Belief Propagation. Table I summarizes the
core dataflow primitives and keywords used to construct these
graph hardware kernels within the Iteration block.
Graph.hls Frontend is a superset of the GAS model,
since we can represent GAS as a special case of our
map/reduce/filter primitives. As illustrated in Figure 5a, the
standard GAS pattern maps directly onto Graph.hls Frontend primitives: Scatter corresponds to iteration_input
followed by map over edge streams, Gather corresponds to
reduce with a commutative-associative lambda, and Apply corresponds to a post-reduction map referencing self
properties. Any algorithm expressible in GAS can therefore
be implemented in Graph.hls Frontend using this mapping.
Beyond GAS, Graph.hls Frontend supports algorithms with
fundamentally irregular dataflow through flexible composition
of its primitives. For example, Belief Propagation requires
aggregating messages from all incoming neighbors except the
target neighbor when updating each directed edge message—a
selective exclusion that GAS’s undifferentiated Gather cannot
express. In Graph.hls Frontend, this is naturally implemented
by inserting a filter primitive before reduce to exclude
the target edge, then chaining the result through a map to com-

dataflow organization and host-side coordination logic, requiring comprehensive design knowledge of the entire hardwaresoftware interface. Without Level 3 flexibility, developers
commit to single strategies early, suffering sub-optimal performance when graphs don’t match assumptions, and cannot
merge architectural innovations from different research works.
Graph.hls’s elevation of these to first-class configuration parameters enables composing architectural strategies through
configuration changes, using GH-Scope’s baseline comparison
to evaluate composed designs against individual techniques
from ReGraph, ThunderGP, or GraphLily before HLS synthesis.
4) Cross-Level Parameter Dependencies: The hierarchical
design abstraction reflects fundamental dependencies in graph
processing parameter interactions. Unlike matrix processing
where parameters often compose independently, graph parameters exhibit complex cross-level dependencies from irregular
data structures and data-dependent execution. Convergence
threshold (L1) determines required vertex property bit width
precision (L2)—PageRank with ε = 10−6 requires 32-bit
floats while ε = 10−3 may suffice with 16-bit fixed-point.
Vertex property bit width (L2) affects partition granularity
(L3)—16-bit properties enable 2× larger partitions (1M vs
512K vertices) fitting in URAM. Partition strategy (L3) determines edge property representation (L2)—vertex-cut replicating vertices requires decisions about weight replication
versus separate storage. This cross-level inference is graphspecific, requiring understanding how structural properties
(degree distribution, value ranges, topology) propagate through
algorithm choices, data structure decisions, and architectural
strategies.
B. Automated Generation and Debugging Workflow
The hierarchical design abstraction defines what can be
tuned, but organizing parameters alone does not solve the two
pitfalls. We need to address how these parameters are actually
implemented in hardware code (Pitfall I) and how designs
are verified without slow Co-Sim (Pitfall II). Graph.hls solves

6

TABLE I: Algorithmic Keywords and Dataflow APIs inside the Graph.hls Iteration Block.
Keyword / API

Return / Data Type

Description

Callable

Anonymous functions for computations, conditions, and custom reductions.

1. Lambda Expressions
lambda args: expr

2. Context Accessors & Update Targets
self.<prop>
e.src, e.dst, e.<prop>
result_node_prop.<p>

Property Type
Node / Edge Object
Hardware Target

Reads the vertex’s current property (used in post-reduction maps).
Reads properties of the source vertex, destination vertex, or the edge itself.
Specifies the target node property for final results.

3. Dataflow Primitives & Pipeline Control
iteration_input(src)
map([stream], lambda)
filter([stream], lambda)
reduce(key, val, lambda)
return <obj> as <target>

Stream<Edge / Node>
Stream<Inferred Type>
Stream<Origin Type>
Stream<Key, Val>
Void (Terminator)

Generates an initial stream from graph structural data (e.g., G.EDGES).
Applies lambda to every element in the stream.
Filters out stream elements where lambda returns false.
Aggregates values by key using the lambda reduction function.
Writes the final <obj> stream to the specified <target> property.

pute the outgoing message. We evaluate Graph.hls Frontend
across a broad range of graph algorithms including PageRank
(PR), Weakly Connected Components (WCC), SpMV-based
PageRank (AR), and weighted Single-Source Shortest Path
(SSSP) in Section V.
Figure 5a illustrates a complete algorithmic implementation
in our DSL. Developers build custom hardware pipelines
seamlessly: execution begins with iteration_input generating the initial edge stream (Line 13). Instead of manually
coordinating complex memory fetches, developers use context accessors within map functions to concurrently extract
properties, such as e.src.rank (Lines 14–15). The dataflow
is then aggregated via custom reduce logic (Lines 16–17).
Using self.out_deg (Line 18), developers can effortlessly
reference a vertex’s prior static state for post-reduction updates. Finally, the return ... as ... terminator explicitly bounds the pipeline, directing the hardware compiler to
route the output stream into the designated memory target
(Line 19).
To ensure that these highly expressive specifications synthesize correctly into deeply pipelined, parallel FPGA hardware,
the Graph.hls DSL relies on three fundamental algorithmic
assumptions. First, the data streams passed between operators
are unordered. This relaxation of strict sequential dependencies allows the underlying hardware to process edges out-oforder and maximize memory bandwidth utilization. Second,
to support scalable, multi-partition spatial aggregation, the
lambda function provided to the reduce primitive must
be both commutative and associative. Third, the algorithmic behavior must be entirely expressible within a singleiteration boundary. The DSL defines the hardware datapath
for one complete processing pass, and relies on the host
system to iteratively invoke this unified kernel until graphlevel convergence is achieved. Consequently, for algorithms
with inherently sequential dependencies, such as Dijkstra’s
algorithm, we deliberately advocate for equivalent concurrentrelaxation formulations. For instance, Bellman-Ford-style edge
relaxation exposes the spatial parallelism necessary to fully
saturate the generated hardware pipelines.
Beyond algorithmic logic, users can optionally specify ar-

chitectural parameters directly within the definition or declare
them separately, as shown in the HierarchicalParam
block in Figure 5a. When parameters are not explicitly defined,
GH-Architect automatically infers appropriate values. Critically, if GH-Architect detects that a user-specified parameter is
sub-optimal for the target graph workload or FPGA platform,
it raises warnings with specific optimization suggestions. This
Graph.hls Frontend design balances simplicity for algorithm
expression with flexibility for performance tuning, making
graph accelerator development accessible to domain experts
without requiring deep hardware knowledge. [S2]Concretely,
users specify the algorithm body (the Iteration block)
and the data schema (Node/Edge property declarations);
L2 and L3 parameters such as vertex property bitwidth and
pipeline grouping strategy may be optionally supplied in
the HlsConfig block but are otherwise inferred by GHArchitect, while L1 parameters (e.g., partition ratio, buffer
sizing) are always inferred automatically from the target graph
dataset and hardware platform.
Figure 5b illustrates concrete examples of optimizations
enabled by our hierarchical abstraction, demonstrating how
parameters at different levels translate to actual hardware
modifications. At Level 1, adjusting the vertex filtering threshold changes the data distribution ratio between big and little
pipelines, affecting the partitioning logic without structural
changes. At Level 2, reducing vertex property bit width
from 32-bit to 16-bit halves memory requirements and doubles bandwidth utilization, requiring propagation through data
structures but maintaining the same dataflow organization. At
Level 3, generalizing the partition strategy from ReGraph’s
fixed 2-class configuration (one 524K sparse partition and one
65K dense partition) to a multi-class configuration (two 65K
dense partitions and one 524K sparse partition) requires complete architectural redesign. These examples validate that our
hierarchical abstraction accurately captures the modification
cost range from simple constant changes to complete system
reorganization, enabling developers to compose optimizations
at appropriate abstraction levels.
2) GH-Architect: Automated Hardware Generation: GHArchitect is the core automated design space exploration

7

Algorithm 1 Graph Parameter Dependency Propagation

heuristic for L3 selection. For parameters such as pipeline
grouping strategy, it analyzes graph structural statistics, including degree distribution and average vertex degree, to estimate
load balance across candidate partition configurations, and
selects the configuration with the highest predicted pipeline
utilization.
For L1 and L2 parameters, GH-Architect resolves their
values through dependency propagation conditioned on the
fixed L3 configuration. As established in Section III-A4, these
parameters exhibit cross-level dependencies flowing in both
directions: parent-to-child constraints (e.g., L1 convergence
threshold constraining L2 property bit width) and child-toparent constraints (e.g., L2 memory layout constraining L1
buffer sizing). In principle, fully propagating all constraints
requires two full BFS traversals, one from root to leaf and
one from leaf to root. Algorithm 1 improves upon this by
interleaving the forward and backward passes within each
iteration, reducing the total number of traversals needed to
reach a fixed point. This propagation procedure is entirely
deterministic and involves no heuristic. Given the fixed L3
configuration and the hardware constraints provided by either
built-in FPGA templates (e.g., AMD Alveo) or custom user
inputs, the algorithm produces a unique valid parameter assignment through constraint intersection alone.
To resolve parameters efficiently, GH-Architect assigns an
Analyzer to each parameter node. Each analyzer performs
two distinct roles: a constraint filter and a final selector.
First, during the dependency propagation (Algorithm 1), the
analyzer acts as a filter by pruning incompatible values from a
parent’s feasible set before passing it to child nodes. Second,
once propagation finishes, the analyzer acts as a selector,
choosing the exact instantiation value from the remaining
valid options. While every parameter node is equipped with
a Default Analyzer that simply passes values along and picks
an arbitrary valid option, GH-Architect additionally provides
hand-crafted Specialized Analyzers for key parameters, which
actively exploit hardware-specific rules and graph structural
statistics to make performance-optimal decisions. For instance,
consider the specialized analyzer for the L2 parameter Parallel
Lane Count. During the filtering phase, it automatically discards any lane count that does not fully utilize the hardware’s
memory bus width. During the selection phase, it evaluates the
remaining valid lane counts and confidently selects the configuration that maximizes parallel throughput without exceeding
the available URAM and HBM capacities.
[S5]The combination of heuristic-driven L3 selection and
deterministic L1/L2 dependency propagation directly resolves
Pitfall I. Instead of manually integrating optimizations across
200+ lines and 10+ files, developers simply declare their
desired strategies and GH-Architect automatically resolves all
cross-level dependencies and generates a globally consistent
hardware implementation, reducing weeks of expert-level integration to a single configuration change.
[S3]
a) Worked Example: PageRank End-to-End.: To make
the compilation flow concrete, we trace the PageRank program

Require: Dependency graph G, user specification U , L3 strategy sL3
Ensure: Valid parameter combinations C
1: Initialize all node available sets from full domains
2: Apply U to constrain corresponding nodes
3: Set root constraints from sL3
4: repeat
5:
changed ← FALSE
6:
for each node v in topological
order do
T
7:
A′ (v) ← A(v) ∩ u∈parents(v) Analyzeru (A(u), v)
8:
if A′ (v) = ∅ then
9:
return ∅
10:
end if
11:
if A′ (v) ̸= A(v) then
12:
A(v) ← A′ (v); changed ← TRUE
13:
end if
14:
end for
15:
for each node v in reverse
topological order do
T
16:
A′ (v) ← A(v) ∩ w∈children(v) BAnalyzerw (A(w), v)
17:
if A′ (v) = ∅ then
18:
return ∅
19:
end if
20:
if A′ (v) ̸= A(v) then
21:
A(v) ← A′ (v); changed ← TRUE
22:
end if
23:
end for
24: until ¬changed
25: return CartesianProduct({A(v) | v ∈ V })

and code generation engine that transforms high-level graph
algorithm specifications into optimized hardware. Initially,
GH-Architect accepts the Graph.hls DSL and transforms it
into the Graph.hls Intermediate Representation (Graph.hlsIR), structured as a spatial dataflow DAG where nodes represent fundamental graph computations and edges represent
data dependencies corresponding to hardware streams in the
generated accelerator pipeline. [S4]Concretely, the IR comprises five node types corresponding to the DSL primitives
in Table I: iteration_input (stream source), map (perelement transform), filter (conditional selection), reduce
(keyed aggregation), and return (output sink).
After building the IR, GH-Architect applies standard compiler optimizations like constant folding and dead code elimination. The IR remains structurally stable after these passes;
the core optimization is the parameter-space search below,
which uses the IR’s dataflow structure to guide dependency
propagation and resource allocation rather than rewriting the
graph. It then resolves parameters across all three levels
through a two-phase procedure: first, L3 parameters are determined via a heuristic selection informed by graph structural
statistics; then, L1 and L2 parameters are resolved through
dependency propagation conditioned on the fixed L3 configuration. Using these finalized parameters, GH-Architect
directly generates a ready-to-compile Vitis project, completely
packaging the required HLS C++ source code, Makefiles, and
configuration scripts.
For L3 parameters, the design space is substantially larger
than that of L1 and L2, and selecting an effective configuration
requires reasoning about graph data characteristics and algorithm behavior that is graph-topology-dependent and difficult
to search exhaustively. Therefore, GH-Architect employs a

8

from Figure 5a through GH-Architect on a representative
target (Alveo U55C, 960 URAMs, 32 HBM channels) running
on rmat-21-32 (2.1M vertices, 67M edges). (1) DSL to IR.
GH-Architect parses the PageRank DSL (Figure 5a) into a
spatial dataflow DAG where each node maps to a hardware
stream segment. (2) L3 Selection (heuristic). The U55C’s 3
SLRs admit 14 pipeline slots. GH-Architect groups these into
one big and one little partition class based on rmat-21-32’s
power-law degree distribution (average degree ∼30, but ∼5%
of vertices attract over 60% of edges): 11 little pipelines for
the high-degree dense partition, 3 big pipelines for the sparse
tail. This L3 configuration is fixed before L1/L2 resolution
begins. (3) L1/L2 Propagation (deterministic). Conditioned
on L3, Algorithm 1 resolves L1/L2 via bidirectional constraint
intersection. Forward (L3→L2→L1): each pipeline has 8 PEs,
each with a URAM-backed reduce buffer. At 32-bit, each
72-bit URAM row holds ⌊72/32⌋ = 2 values, so 65,536
destinations require 65,536/2/8 PEs = 4,096 rows = 8
URAMs per PE, giving 8 × 8 = 64 URAMs per pipeline
and 14 × 64 = 896 of 960 total (93%). This fixes L1 max
partition size at 65,536. Backward (L1→L2): the forward pass
admits both 16-bit and 32-bit as physically feasible. However,
PageRank rank contributions are ∼ rank/out_deg; for a
typical vertex with out-degree 1,000, each contribution is
∼ 10−3 . At 16-bit fixed-point the smallest representable delta
is 2−8 ≈ 0.004, which rounds these contributions to zero
and causes false convergence; at 32-bit the smallest delta is
2−16 ≈ 1.5 × 10−5 , sufficient to accumulate them correctly.
The backward pass thus eliminates 16-bit, fixing L2 bitwidth
at 32. Neither pass alone suffices: forward determines what
fits in hardware, backward determines what is algorithmically correct. (4) Code Generation. GH-Architect emits a
complete Vitis project—HLS C++ for all kernels, host code,
Makefile, and system.cfg with SLR/HBM bindings—all
consistent by construction. If the user later switches to SSSP
(integer distances), the backward pass relaxes bitwidth to 8-bit
(⌊72/8⌋ = 8 values per row), quartering per-pipeline URAM
to 16 and quadrupling the feasible buffer depth—all re-derived
automatically without manual code changes.
3) GH-Scope: Rapid Verification and Performance Prediction: GH-Scope is a fast simulation and verification framework designed specifically for graph processing. Rather than
relying on slow hardware emulation or conventional C-level
simulation, GH-Scope runs simulation directly at the Graph.hls
IR level. Beyond simulation, GH-Scope also compares the
user’s results against pre-validated golden references, which
are separate HLS implementations maintained within the
framework as trusted reference points, providing systematic
correctness validation that existing tools lack entirely. Together, these two mechanisms directly address the comparison
and debugging bottleneck demonstrated in Pitfall II (Section II-B).
At the start of the verification flow, GH-Scope receives the
optimized IR from GH-Architect and performs type checking
to verify that data types for all graph elements, including
vertices, edges, and their properties, are consistent throughout

the computation graph. At the same time, GH-Scope performs
a circular dependency check to verify that the generated
computation graph forms a valid DAG. Rather than detecting traditional runtime deadlocks, this static structural check
identifies illegal feedback cycles among pipeline stages at the
IR level before any hardware synthesis begins, eliminating an
entire class of costly late-stage failures.
Once the IR passes structural validation, GH-Scope executes fast simulation using a custom interpreter that operates
directly on the Graph.hls IR. [S6]The interpreter evaluates
the dataflow DAG on the concrete input graph: each iteration
processes all edges through the IR’s map/reduce/filter
nodes using actual property values, updates vertex states, and
repeats until convergence or a maximum iteration count is
reached. This IR-level simulation is fundamentally different
from conventional HLS C-level simulation. Standard HLS
pipelines compile graph models down to C arrays and forloops, completely erasing structural graph semantics in the
process. For example, a gather operation over nodes becomes
a for-loop with nested gather logic in C, introducing crossiteration pointer conflicts that are difficult to trace. When such
a conflict occurs, a C-level simulator reports only a raw pointer
collision at a specific array address, which the developer
must manually reverse-engineer back to the corresponding
graph topology, and which often requires restructuring the
C code entirely. In contrast, because GH-Scope simulates at
the IR level where graph semantics are preserved, it directly
identifies the exact source and destination vertices responsible
for the conflict. Meanwhile, as detailed in Section V, GHScope completes simulation orders of magnitude faster than Clevel simulation. During simulation, GH-Scope also performs
two critical runtime checks: overflow detection monitors all
arithmetic operations and immediately reports when computed
values exceed the specified property bitwidth, and infinite loop
detection tracks iteration counts to identify non-converging
graph algorithms that would otherwise cause the accelerator
to stall indefinitely.
The hardware-level validation component of GH-Scope provides systematic comparison between the user’s implementation and the golden reference. Graph processing presents
unique verification challenges because performance and resource utilization vary dramatically with input graph structure,
making designs difficult to validate through static analysis
alone. GH-Scope addresses this by automatically comparing a
set of graph-specific architectural metrics between the user’s
configuration and the golden reference, derived from both
static code analysis and Vitis synthesis reports. These metrics
include cross-SLR connection counts and vertex partition
sizes, extracted directly from code analysis; and SLR utilization distributions and per-module LUT and FF utilization,
extracted from synthesis reports; as well as FIFO depth
allocations for edge buffers and vertex queues, which reveal
excessive buffering. Consider a developer who aligns their accelerator architecture with ReGraph [3] but introduces custom
optimizations. GH-Scope automatically compares the modified
design against the ReGraph golden reference and reports,

9

TABLE II: Comprehensive L1–L3 Parameter Design Space Supported in the Graph.hls Evaluation.
Parameter Name

Example Values

Description

Level 3: Graph Dataflow Strategies
Pipeline Grouping Strategy

(2 big, 3 little, 3 little)

Determines the top-level partition assignment and execution model across compute units.

Level 2: Graph Microarchitecture Configuration
Vertex Property Bitwidth
Parallel Lane Count (PE)
Memory Bus Width
On-chip Buffer Sizes

16-bit, 32-bit
4, 8, 16
256-bit, 512-bit
4096, 8192

Controls processing precision, memory bandwidth utilization, and on-chip cache capacity.
Determines the number of parallel processing elements in the reduction network per pipeline.
Defines the data transfer granularity between external HBM memory and on-chip kernels.
Sets the capacity of internal buffers and prefetch structures to mitigate memory latency.

Level 1: Graph Processing Constants
Max Partition Capacity
Storage Resource Binding
Stream FIFO Depth
Kernel Placement (SLR)
Hardware Clock Target

65536, 524288
BRAM, URAM
2, 16, 32
SLR0, SLR1, SLR2
200MHz, 250MHz

Defines the maximum number of vertices or edges processed within URAM.
Assigns specific physical FPGA memory resources to internal arrays and FIFOs.
Adjusts the buffering capacity between pipeline stages to absorb burst accesses.
Maps specific processing kernels to physical FPGA die regions to optimize routing constraints.
Sets the synthesis frequency goal, influencing timing closure and pipeline register insertion.

for instance, that the new vertex partition strategy introduces
40% more cross-SLR data transfers due to sub-optimal graph
partitioning, directly identifying the root cause and suggesting
corrective actions such as adjusting the partition method or
reducing the partition count.
The combination of IR-level simulation, structural validation, and systematic golden reference comparison directly
resolves Pitfall II. Instead of spending hours manually comparing implementations against a validated reference, GHScope automatically compares the user’s results against the
golden reference across multiple graph topologies, identifies
divergent results, and correlates them with graph structural
properties, replacing slow hardware emulation with a subsecond debugging loop.

D. Limitations
[S9]Graph.hls has several clear boundaries: it supports only
static graphs (no dynamic topology mutations), and algorithms
requiring centralized global coordination such as Maximum
Flow cannot be natively handled (sequential-dependency limitations such as Dijkstra’s are discussed in Section III-B1).
Extending the framework with new features is straightforward
in specification (50–100 lines per parameter, as described
in Section III-C) but reconciling cross-level dependencies
remains non-trivial.
IV. I MPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Framework and Scope

C. Optimization Scope
Graph.hls’s IR-based design makes extending the framework straightforward. Each new optimization parameter requires only defining its value domain, dependency edges in the
DAG, and constraint logic connecting it to existing parameters,
typically 50–100 lines of code. This stands in sharp contrast
to monolithic HLS codebases where a single new optimization
often forces edits across a dozen files due to the entanglement
of algorithm, data structure, and hardware concerns.
The current Graph.hls implementation covers the parameters listed in Table II, but the framework’s structure naturally accommodates further extensions. For example, energyefficiency optimizations from prior work [8] such as BRAM
power-gating can be expressed as an L2 parameter: when enabled, GH-Architect annotates each BRAM array with enableport control logic that activates a given module only during
the iteration over the partition whose data it holds, with the
dependency propagation automatically deriving each BRAM’s
enable signal from the partition index. Similarly, the CGRAstyle spatial mapping model from prior work [6] can be
captured as an L3 parameter specifying cluster construction
method, target cluster size, and lane distribution policy, causing GH-Architect to emit the corresponding preprocessing step
and automatically propagate the change into dependent L2
parameters such as on-chip buffer sizes and parallel lane count.

We have implemented the Graph.hls framework with 10k+
lines of Rust code, encompassing the DSL frontend, the GHArchitect generation engine, and the GH-Scope simulation
environment. The framework is designed to be platformagnostic, seamlessly generalizing across physical hardware to
natively support both conventional DRAM-based FPGAs and
modern High-Bandwidth Memory (HBM) FPGA architectures
without requiring user-level code modifications.
B. Implemented Design Space
To test the effectiveness of GH-Architect’s design space
exploration, we implemented a comprehensive set of tunable
parameters spanning all three abstraction levels. Table II summarizes the full supported list of L1, L2, and L3 parameters
evaluated in our experiments.
In existing frameworks, co-tuning parameters across levels
requires extensive manual code rewrites—changing a datatype
format (L2) while altering the pipeline grouping strategy (L3)
alone breaks dataflow interfaces and memory packing logic.
Graph.hls instead exposes these as decoupled knobs, with GHArchitect automatically resolving dependencies and generating
consistent hardware. The following subsections demonstrate
the resulting performance benefits.

10

TABLE III: Statistics for the FPGA platforms used in experiments.

4

Platform

#LUTs

#URAMs

#SLRs

Bandwidth

#CH

#Port

TDP

3

Alveo U55C

1,304K

960

3

460 GB/s

32

32

115W

Alveo U200

1,182K

960

3

77 GB/s

4

4

215W

Speedup

PR

1
0

258.5M
16.8M
67.1M
268.4M
5.2M
56.3M
172.2M
15.6M
68.9M
117.2M
17.8M
5.1M
14.9M
28.5M

56
32
32
16
7
53
9
9
14
38
8
6
7
16

Directed
Directed
Directed
Directed
Directed
Undirected
Directed
Undirected
Undirected
Undirected
Directed
Directed
Directed
Directed

Synthetic
Synthetic
Synthetic
Synthetic
Social
Collaboration
Social
Social
Social
Social
Web
Web
Web
Web

AM

HW

DB

FU

LJ

OR

BB

GG

HD

TC

Fig. 6: Performance comparison between Graph.hls and ReGraph across PR, CC, and SSSP on all benchmark graphs.
Graph.hls restricts L2 and L3 parameters to match ReGraph’s
configuration for fair comparison.

PR

2

CC

AR

Weighted_SSSP

WCC

1.5
1
0.5
0 G23

V. E VALUATION
We first assess the overall efficiency of codes generated by
Graph.hls against start-of-the-art framework. We then evaluate
the design space exploration results of GH-Architect by doing
experiments on L1, L2 and L3 parameter.

R19

R21

R24

AM

HW

DB

FU

LJ

BB

GG

HD

ThunderGP OoM

4.6M
524.3K
2.1M
16.8M
735.3K
1.1M
18.3M
1.7M
4.8M
3.1M
2.1M
916.4K
2.0M
1.8M

R24

ThunderGP OoM

Category

R21

ThunderGP OoM

Type

R19

ThunderGP OoM

|D|

G23

ThunderGP OoM

|E|

Speedup

graph500-scale23 (G23) [19]
rmat-19-32 (R19) [13]
rmat-21-32 (R21) [13]
rmat-24-16 (R24) [13]
amazon-2008 (AM) [19]
ca-hollywood-2009 (HW) [19]
dbpedia-link (DB) [19]
soc-flickr-und (FU) [19]
soc-LiveJournal1 (LJ) [14]
orkut (OR) [19]
web-baidu-baike (BB) [19]
web-Google (GG) [19]
web-hudong (HD) [19]
wiki-topcats (TC) [14]

|V |

SSSP

2

TABLE IV: Graph Datasets Used in Experiments
Graph

CC

TC

Fig. 7: Performance comparison between Graph.hls and ThunderGP across PR, Weighted SSSP, CC, AR, and WCC on all
benchmark graphs. Graph.hls restricts L2 and L3 parameters
to match ThunderGP’s configuration for fair comparison.

A. Experimental Setup
Hardware platforms. We evaluate Graph.hls on two
distinct FPGA platforms: the memory-bound Alveo U55C
(HBM-based) and the Alveo U200 (DDR-based), to demonstrate our framework’s versatility across different memory
architectures.
Table III details the hardware statistics for both platforms.
Both boards are hosted on a server equipped with an AMD
EPYC 7C13 CPU. All hardware synthesis and code evaluations are developed using Xilinx Vitis 2024.1.
Datasets. Table IV shows the details of the used graph
datasets, including synthetic graphs and real-world large-scale
graphs.
[S7]Applications and Baselines. We evaluate Graph.hls
using six graph algorithms: PageRank (PR), Single-Source
Shortest Path (SSSP), Weighted SSSP, Closeness Centrality
(CC), ArticleRank (AR), and Weakly Connected Component
(WCC). Since ReGraph [3] supports only PR, CC, and SSSP,
and ThunderGP [4] supports PR, Weighted SSSP, CC, AR, and
WCC, we compare against each framework using its respective
supported algorithm subset.

we fix the L2 and L3 parameters to match each baseline’s
configuration, specifically using 32-bit vertex properties and
the same fixed pipeline structure, and apply GH-Architect’s
design space exploration only over the L1 parameters listed in
Table II.
Figure 6 demonstrates that Graph.hls consistently outperforms ReGraph across all three algorithms and all 14 graphs,
achieving an average speedup of 2.6× with L1-only exploration. This result is notable because L2 and L3 are fixed
to match ReGraph’s configuration, meaning the gains come
from only GH-Architect’s L1 parameter tuning—without any
structural hardware modification. Graphs with skewed degree
distributions such as R24, AM, and LJ benefit most, as
better partition ratio selection directly improves load balance
across pipelines. Even on more uniform graphs such as R19,
Graph.hls still achieves meaningful gains, confirming that L1
tuning is broadly effective.
Figure 7 shows that Graph.hls consistently matches or
exceeds ThunderGP across all five algorithms on the DDRbased U200 platform,, achieving an average speedup of 1.2×.
Beyond performance, Graph.hls supports a broader algorithm
set: ThunderGP runs out of memory on five large graphs (OR),
while Graph.hls handles them without issue. This highlights
Graph.hls’s wider coverage across both algorithms and graph
scales. Even with L1-only tuning, Graph.hls achieves consistent speedups, demonstrating that GH-Architect’s design space
exploration generalizes across different memory architectures.

B. Comparison with State-of-the-arts
We compare Graph.hls against ReGraph [3] on U55C
(HBM-based) and ThunderGP [4] on U200 (DRAM-based)
across all datasets. For the HBM platform, we select ReGraph
as the baseline since it outperforms ThunderGP on HBM,
making it the stronger competitor. For the DRAM platform,
ReGraph does not support DRAM-based architectures, so
ThunderGP serves as the baseline. To ensure a fair comparison,

11

C. Ablation Study

L1

L1+L2

L1+L3

L1+L2+L3

6
5

Speedup

To understand the individual and combined contributions of
Graph.hls’s multi-level design space exploration, we conduct
an ablation study on three representative parameters using
SSSP: (1) L1: graph partition ratio, (2) L2: vertex property bit
width, and (3) L3: pipeline grouping strategy. We evaluate five
configurations: a Naive baseline using no parameter tuning, L1
only, L1+L2, L1+L3, and L1+L2+L3 (full), and report speedup
over ReGraph on SSSP across all benchmark graphs.
Figure 8 presents the results. The Naive configuration uses
Graph.hls with default parameters, no design space exploration, and a homogeneous pipeline set without heterogeneous
big-little grouping. It achieves only 0.71× average speedup
over ReGraph, confirming that raw framework expressiveness
alone does not translate to performance gains and that parameter tuning is essential.
L1-only tuning already achieves consistent speedups over
ReGraph across all graphs, with an average speedup of 1.99×,
as optimizing the partition ratio improves hardware utilization without modifying the hardware structure—effectively
unlocking latent throughput in the existing pipeline. L1+L2
(vertex property bit width) yields the largest incremental gain,
reaching 2.95× by improving both memory bandwidth and
on-chip cache capacity. L1+L3 (pipeline grouping strategy) instead achieves 2.52×, with topology-dependent gains favoring
skewed graphs (G23, LJ, OR) over uniform ones (R19, TC).
The full L1+L2+L3 configuration achieves 4.48× average
speedup, confirming that all three levels are complementary
and super-additive over any individual or pairwise combination. This confirms that Graph.hls successfully composes
multiple optimization techniques that previously could not be
jointly applied in any single existing framework.
The behavior arises because each level removes a different
bottleneck. L1 alone improves load balance but leaves memory
bandwidth underutilized. Adding L2 (8-bit) utilizes bandwidth,
but the fixed 2-class pipeline cannot adapt to the faster
dataflow. Adding L3 (heterogeneous grouping) reshapes the
pipeline to match the new throughput profile. This validates
the central thesis of Graph.hls: graph accelerator optimizations
are deeply interdependent, and only a framework that resolves
cross-level dependencies can realize their full combined benefit.

Naive

7

4
3
2
1
0 G23

R19

R21

R24

AM

HW

DB

FU

LJ

OR

BB

GG

HD

TC

Fig. 8: Ablation study showing speedup over ReGraph on
SSSP for Naive (No search) and 4 configurations (L1, L1+L2,
L1+L3, L1+L2+L3). L1: graph partition ratio; L2: vertex
property bit width; L3: pipeline grouping strategy.
TABLE V: Debugging time comparison for common error
scenarios (32K nodes, 512K edges, SSSP).
Error Type
Algorithm failure (6 iter.)
Stream type mismatch
Parameter mismatch

HLS Emulation

GH-Scope

Speedup

∼6 hours
73m 40s
13m 13s

0.04s
0.02s
0.02s

∼455,000×
∼186,000×
∼33,000×

limits on larger datasets. Table V compares hardware emulation against GH-Scope validation.
GH-Scope completes comprehensive validation, including
type checking, deadlock detection, algorithm verification, and
baseline comparison, in just 0.02 seconds. In contrast, HLS
emulation requires 13 to 74 minutes per iteration depending
on the error type, and offers no mechanism to compare implementations against validated baselines. For algorithm failures
that require multiple debugging iterations, hardware emulation
consumes ∼6 hours versus just 0.04 seconds with GH-Scope,
a ∼455,000× speedup. Stream type mismatches are especially
costly in traditional workflows, taking 73.7 minutes as errors
appear only during execution, while GH-Scope detects them
almost instantly, achieving a ∼186,000× speedup.
Large-scale Simulation Speed. Beyond catching hardware
bugs, developers need to simulate algorithmic correctness
on real-world workloads. To place our simulation speed in
context, we are intended to compare GH-Scope against the
conventional HLS C simulator [5], which correctly models
concurrent pipeline behavior. However, as this simulator is not
open-sourced, we instead use Vitis C-Sim as a proxy, given
that the authors of [5] report its speed to be approximately
on par with standard C-Sim (∼1×). A speedup over Vitis CSim therefore reflects an equivalent speedup over this class of
conventional parallel simulators.
We benchmarked a single iteration of PR, CC, and SSSP
across our dataset suite. As shown in Figure 9, GH-Scope
achieves consistent speedups over C-Sim across all graphs
and algorithms. For example, processing the rmat-24-16 graph
with PageRank requires 1,779.06 seconds in C-Sim, whereas
GH-Scope completes the same workload in 8.29 seconds, a
215× speedup. GH-Scope’s IR-level interpretation bypasses
the sequential execution bottlenecks of C-Sim, and finishes
graphs such as LiveJournal and graph500-scale23 in a matter

D. GH-Scope Verification and Simulation Efficiency
We evaluate the verification efficiency of GH-Scope across
two dimensions: (1) catching rapid development errors via
hardware-level debugging, and (2) algorithmic simulation
speed on large-scale graphs against vendor software emulation
(C-Sim) and prior simulation frameworks.
Hardware-level Debugging Efficiency. We first evaluate
GH-Scope’s baseline comparison capability using a 32K-node,
512K-edge synthetic graph across three common accelerator
development error scenarios. This smaller graph size is necessitated by the fact that traditional Vitis hardware emulation
(Co-Sim) suffers from exorbitant execution times and memory

12

PR

1000

CC

SSSP

from physical hardware transformations, enabling correct-byconstruction FPGA code generation.
Hardware Compilation and Design Space Mapping.
Generic HLS tools like Vitis HLS [27] raise abstraction from
RTL to C/C++ but provide no domain-specific optimizations
for graph processing. AutoBridge [9] automates floorplanning
and Guo et al. [10] optimize implicit broadcasts, addressing
specific physical challenges. For abstract-to-hardware mapping, Nigam et al. [16] require developers to manually supply
heavy hardware constraints, while Smith et al. [24] use pure
mathematical solvers to explore the mapping space. Graph.hls
takes a different approach: it decouples algorithm logic from
hardware constraints to maximize productivity, and replaces
expensive solvers with lightweight dependency propagation
over a finite discrete parameter space.
Performance Modeling and Verification. Roofline models [23], [26] characterize compute and memory bounds
but require manual analysis, while regression-based models [4] struggle with data-dependent graph workloads. Standard HLS verification relies on C-simulation and RTL cosimulation [27], with co-simulation requiring 10–15 minutes
per iteration as shown in Section II-B. Chi et al. [5] propose a cycle-accurate parallel C simulator that better models concurrent pipeline behavior than standard C-Sim, but
remain fundamentally limited by sequential execution speed.
Graph.hls replaces this with IR-level simulation that completes
in seconds. It also adds type checking, deadlock detection,
and automatic baseline comparison against validated reference
implementations, none of which existing tools provide.

Speedup

300
60
20
1
G23

R19

R21

R24

AM

HW

DB

FU

LJ

OR

BB

GG

HD

TC

Fig. 9: Simulation speedup of GH-Scope IR Simulator over
Vitis C-Sim for PR, CC, and SSSP across all benchmark
graphs.
of seconds.
These results demonstrate that GH-Scope effectively resolves Pitfall II. By operating at the IR level, it provides
developers with a fast verification engine that replaces slow
emulation cycles, allowing them to rapidly iterate and validate
behavior against baselines.
VI. R ELATED W ORK
[S8]FPGA-Based Graph Processing Frameworks. Early
FPGA graph processing frameworks [7], [17], [18], [21],
[29] established foundational techniques but required extensive
manual hardware design. Recent frameworks improved performance through sophisticated optimizations: ThunderGP [4]
achieves high bandwidth utilization through elaborate caching,
ReGraph [3] introduces heterogeneous big-little pipelines for
HBM platforms, and GraphLily [12] provides graph linear
algebra primitives with overlay architectures. However, each
framework implements its optimizations in isolation, making
them non-composable. A comprehensive survey [8] explicitly
identifies programmability as a critical bottleneck: without
dedicated DSLs, developers must manually rewrite large rigid
code templates to explore different architectures. Graph.hls
directly addresses this gap through hierarchical abstraction and
automated code generation.
Landscape Coverage of Graph Accelerators. Graph.hls
covers the existing landscape of FPGA graph accelerators
across both algorithmic and architectural dimensions [6],
[8]. On the algorithmic front, the Graph.hls DSL transcends
the traditional Gather-Apply-Scatter (GAS) model, naturally
supporting edge-centric and weighted formulations. On the
architectural front, the L1–L3 abstraction models the full
structural design space previously scattered across isolated
frameworks, allowing users to explore diverse physical architectures through configuration changes alone rather than
manual hardware rewrites.
Domain-Specific Languages for Graph Processing. Prior
graph DSLs such as Green-Marl [11] and GraphIt [28] target CPUs and GPUs, optimizing software thread scheduling, cache blocking, and loop unrolling. These instructionbased abstractions do not map onto spatial FPGA pipelines,
which require streaming dataflow and specialized memory
hierarchies. Graph.hls introduces a spatial programming model
with an explicit dataflow IR that decouples algorithmic logic

VII. C ONCLUSION
Graph accelerator development on FPGAs faces two critical
challenges: the design exploration gap, where different optimization techniques cannot be composed, and the verification
gap, where developers lack systematic tools to validate implementations, forcing reliance on slow hardware emulation.
Graph.hls addresses these challenges through a hierarchical design abstraction and automated generation and debugging workflows. Our hierarchical design abstraction enables
GH-Architect to compose multiple optimization techniques
through a single unified configuration, reducing a 200+-line
modification to just one line, and automatically generates
the integrated hardware. GH-Scope provides rapid verification
through IR-level simulation and baseline comparison, accelerating simulation by 301.6× over vendor C-Sim and reducing
debugging time by up to 455,000× over hardware emulation.
Our evaluation demonstrates that Graph.hls achieves 2.6× average speedup over ReGraph and 1.2× over ThunderGP under
fair parameter-matched comparison, and up to 4.48× speedup
when full multi-level design space exploration enabled. By
transforming graph accelerator development from isolated,
non-composable implementations into systematic composition and validation workflows, Graph.hls enables composable,
high-performance FPGA graph accelerator design without
requiring deep hardware expertise.

13

A PPENDIX

How much time is needed to complete experiments (approximately)?: ∼2–4 hours for all runtime experiments (excluding
FPGA synthesis); ∼4–6 hours per synthesis run if re-synthesis
is desired
• Publicly available?: Yes
• Code licenses (if publicly available)?: MIT
• Data licenses (if publicly available)?: Publicly available graph
datasets (SNAP, Network Data Repository)
• Workflow automation framework used?: Shell scripts and
Python
• Archived
(provide
DOI)?:
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.19451706
•

A. Abstract
Graph.hls is a domain-specific compiler framework for
FPGA-based graph accelerators, implemented in approximately 10,000 lines of Rust. The artifact includes the full
Graph.hls compiler (DSL frontend, GH-Architect code generation engine, and GH-Scope IR-level simulation engine), DSL
specifications for all six evaluated graph algorithms (PageRank, SSSP, Weighted SSSP, Closeness Centrality, ArticleRank,
Weakly Connected Component), 14 graph datasets, baseline
framework installations (ReGraph and ThunderGP), and automation scripts to reproduce every figure in the evaluation
section.
Key results that can be reproduced: (1) performance comparison against ReGraph on U55C (Figure 6, 2.6× average
speedup), (2) performance comparison against ThunderGP on
U200 (Figure 7, 1.2× average speedup), (3) ablation study
across L1/L2/L3 parameter levels (Figure 8, up to 4.48×
speedup), (4) GH-Scope simulation speedup over Vitis C-Sim
(Figure 9, 301.6× average), and (5) debugging time comparison against hardware emulation (Table V, up to 455,000×
speedup).
Reproducing FPGA execution results requires Alveo U55C
and U200 boards with Xilinx Vitis 2024.1; we provide remote
access to two pre-configured machines. GH-Scope simulation
and code generation results can be validated on any Linux
machine with the Rust toolchain installed.

C. Description
1) How to access: The Graph.hls source code, DSL algorithm specifications, and experiment automation scripts are
available at:
https://github.com/jayfeather9/Graph.hls
Additionally, we provide remote SSH access to two preconfigured machines (one with Alveo U55C, one with Alveo
U200) with all software, datasets, and baseline frameworks
pre-installed. Access credentials will be provided to AE reviewers upon request.
The artifact will be archived on Zenodo with a DOI before
the camera-ready deadline.
2) Hardware dependencies:
• For full FPGA experiments: Xilinx Alveo U55C (HBMbased) and/or Alveo U200 (DDR-based), hosted on a
server with a multi-core x86 CPU (e.g., AMD EPYC
7C13). Both boards are available on our provided remote
machines.
• For GH-Scope simulation and code generation only:
Any x86-64 Linux machine with ≥16 GB RAM (no
FPGA required).
3) Software dependencies:
• Rust toolchain: Edition 2024, minimum rustc 1.85+
(tested with rustc 1.94.1). All dependencies managed via
cargo.
• Xilinx Vitis 2024.1 + XRT: Required for FPGA synthesis, hardware emulation, and on-board execution. Preinstalled on provided remote machines.
• Python 3: For test graph generation scripts.
• Baselines: ReGraph and ThunderGP are pre-installed on
the remote machines for comparison experiments.
4) Data sets: All 14 graph datasets used in the paper
(Table IV) are pre-installed on both remote machines. These
include:
• Synthetic graphs: graph500-scale23, rmat-19-32, rmat21-32, rmat-24-16
• Real-world graphs: amazon-2008, ca-hollywood-2009,
dbpedia-link, soc-flickr-und, soc-LiveJournal1, orkut,
web-baidu-baike, web-Google, web-hudong, wiki-topcats
Sources include SNAP (https://snap.stanford.edu/data/) and the
Network Data Repository (https://networkrepository.com/). A
Python script is also provided to generate small synthetic
graphs for quick functional testing.

B. Artifact check-list (meta-information)
Algorithm: Domain-specific compiler for graph accelerator
design space exploration; hierarchical multi-level parameter
abstraction (L1/L2/L3)
• Program: Graph.hls compiler (Rust), 6 graph algorithm DSL
specifications, automation scripts (Bash/Python)
• Compilation: Rust 1.85+ (edition 2024); Xilinx Vitis HLS
2024.1 for FPGA synthesis
• Binary: Generated HLS C++ kernels and host executables;
platform-specific (Alveo U55C, Alveo U200)
• Data set: 14 graph datasets from SNAP and Network Data
Repository (synthetic R-MAT/graph500 and real-world social/web graphs); a Python script is provided for generating
small test graphs
• Run-time environment: Linux (Ubuntu); Xilinx Vitis 2024.1
+ XRT runtime
• Hardware: Xilinx Alveo U55C (HBM, 460 GB/s) and Alveo
U200 (DDR4, 77 GB/s); host server with AMD EPYC 7C13
CPU
• Execution: Per-run execution time ranges from ∼1–10 minutes
depending on graph size (excluding FPGA synthesis); full Vitis
hardware build takes ∼4–6 hours per design point
• Metrics: Execution time (ms), speedup over baselines, simulation time, debugging time
• Output: Console logs, CSV result files, and scripts that generate
paper figures
• Experiments: Automated via provided shell/Python scripts for
each evaluation figure
• How much disk space required (approximately)?: ∼20 GB
(compiler, datasets, Vitis build artifacts)
• How much time is needed to prepare workflow (approximately)?: ∼30 minutes (compiler build <5 min; dataset download on provided machines: pre-installed)
•

14

Figure 9: GH-Scope simulation speedup. Run the simulation benchmark script. Expected result: 301.6× average
speedup over Vitis C-Sim across PR, CC, and SSSP. Note:
reproducing the C-Sim baseline requires Vitis 2024.1.
Table V: Debugging time comparison. Run the debugging
scenario scripts using the provided 32K-node synthetic graph.
Expected results: GH-Scope completes validation in ∼0.02–
0.04 seconds vs. minutes/hours for hardware emulation.
Acceptable variation: FPGA execution times may vary by
±5% across runs due to runtime system overhead. GH-Scope
simulation times are deterministic. Speedup ratios should be
within ±10% of reported values.

D. Installation
Option A: Using the provided remote machines (recommended). All software, datasets, and baselines are preinstalled. Reviewers only need SSH access (credentials provided separately). Verify the setup by running:
cd swiftgraph && cargo build --release
./run_test.sh # quick sanity check
Option B: Local installation (GH-Scope and code generation only).
1) Install Rust 1.85+ via https://rustup.rs/
2) Clone the repository and build:
git clone <repo-url> && cd swiftgraph
cargo build --release
3) (Optional) Install Xilinx Vitis 2024.1 + XRT if FPGA
execution is desired.

G. Notes
Pre-built FPGA bitstreams for all evaluated configurations are available on the remote machines to avoid the
4–6 hour synthesis time per design point. Re-synthesis is
optional but supported.
• ReGraph and ThunderGP baselines are pre-installed and
pre-configured on the remote machines. Their source
codes are also publicly available from their respective
repositories.
• GH-Scope simulation and code generation can be fully
evaluated without any FPGA hardware or Xilinx tools,
making a significant portion of the artifact accessible on
commodity machines.
•

E. Experiment workflow
Each figure and table in the evaluation section has a
corresponding automation script. The general workflow is:
1) Write algorithm in DSL → Already provided for all 6
algorithms.
2) GH-Architect generates HLS code → Compiler emits
optimized HLS C++ in ∼100 ms.
3) (Optional) Vitis synthesis → Builds FPGA bitstream
(∼4–6 hours). Pre-built bitstreams are available on remote machines.
4) Execute on FPGA or simulate via GH-Scope →
Runtime experiments take ∼1–10 minutes per graph.
5) Collect results → Scripts output CSV files and generate
figures.
To reproduce all evaluation figures:

H. Methodology
Submission, reviewing and badging methodology:
• https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/
artifact-review-and-badging-current
• https://cTuning.org/ae
R EFERENCES

# On remote machine (U55C):
./scripts/run_all_u55c.sh

[1] “Graph 500,” 2025, accessed: Nov. 13, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://graph500.org/
[2] M. Asiatici and P. Ienne, “Large-scale graph processing on fpgas with
caches for thousands of simultaneous misses,” in 2021 ACM/IEEE
48th Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA),
2021, pp. 609–622.
[3] X. Chen, Y. Chen, F. Cheng, H. Tan, B. He, and W.-F. Wong, “Regraph:
Scaling graph processing on hbm-enabled fpgas with heterogeneous
pipelines,” in 2022 55th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO), 2022, pp. 1342–1358.
[4] X. Chen, F. Cheng, H. Tan, Y. Chen, B. He, W.-F. Wong, and D. Chen,
“Thundergp: Resource-efficient graph processing framework on fpgas
with hls,” ACM Trans. Reconfigurable Technol. Syst., vol. 15, no. 4,
Dec. 2022. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3517141
[5] Y. Chi, Y.-k. Choi, J. Cong, and J. Wang, “Rapid cycle-accurate
simulator for high-level synthesis,” in Proceedings of the 2019
ACM/SIGDA International Symposium on Field-Programmable Gate
Arrays, ser. FPGA ’19. New York, NY, USA: Association
for Computing Machinery, 2019, p. 178–183. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3289602.3293918
[6] V. Dadu, S. Liu, and T. Nowatzki, “Systematically understanding graph
accelerator dimensions and the value of hardware flexibility,” IEEE
Micro, vol. 42, no. 4, pp. 87–96, 2022.
[7] G. Dai, T. Huang, Y. Chi, N. Xu, Y. Wang, and H. Yang, “Foregraph:
Exploring large-scale graph processing on multi-fpga architecture,”
in Proceedings of the 2017 ACM/SIGDA International Symposium
on Field-Programmable Gate Arrays, ser. FPGA ’17. New York,
NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2017, p. 217–226.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3020078.3021739

# On remote machine (U200):
./scripts/run_all_u200.sh
# \sgscope simulation (any machine):
./scripts/run_sgscope_eval.sh
F. Evaluation and expected results
Figure 6: Graph.hls vs. ReGraph (U55C). Run the
comparison script on the U55C machine. Expected result:
Graph.hls achieves 2.6× average speedup over ReGraph across
PR, CC, and SSSP on all 14 graphs with L1-only exploration.
Figure 7: Graph.hls vs. ThunderGP (U200). Run the
comparison script on the U200 machine. Expected result:
Graph.hls achieves 1.2× average speedup across PR, Weighted
SSSP, CC, AR, and WCC.
Figure 8: Ablation study (U55C). Run the ablation script
on the U55C machine. Expected result: Naive 0.71×, L1only 1.99×, L1+L2 2.95×, L1+L3 2.52×, L1+L2+L3 4.48×
average speedup over ReGraph on SSSP.

15

[8] C.-Y. Gui, L. Zheng, B. He, C. Liu, X.-Y. Chen, X.-F. Liao, and
H. Jin, “A survey on graph processing accelerators: Challenges and
opportunities,” Journal of Computer Science and Technology, vol. 34,
pp. 339–371, 03 2019.
[9] L. Guo, Y. Chi, J. Wang, J. Lau, W. Qiao, E. Ustun, Z. Zhang,
and J. Cong, “Autobridge: Coupling coarse-grained floorplanning and
pipelining for high-frequency hls design on multi-die fpgas,” in The
2021 ACM/SIGDA International Symposium on Field-Programmable
Gate Arrays, ser. FPGA ’21. New York, NY, USA: Association
for Computing Machinery, 2021, p. 81–92. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3431920.3439289
[10] L. Guo, J. Lau, Y. Chi, J. Wang, C. H. Yu, Z. Chen, Z. Zhang,
and J. Cong, “Analysis and optimization of the implicit broadcasts
in fpga hls to improve maximum frequency,” in Proceedings of the
2020 ACM/SIGDA International Symposium on Field-Programmable
Gate Arrays, ser. FPGA ’20. New York, NY, USA: Association
for Computing Machinery, 2020, p. 311. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3373087.3375332
[11] S. Hong, H. Chafi, E. Sedlar, and K. Olukotun, “Green-marl:
a dsl for easy and efficient graph analysis,” SIGPLAN Not.,
vol. 47, no. 4, p. 349–362, Mar. 2012. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2248487.2151013
[12] Y. Hu, Y. Du, E. Ustun, and Z. Zhang, “Graphlily: Accelerating graph
linear algebra on hbm-equipped fpgas,” in 2021 IEEE/ACM International
Conference On Computer Aided Design (ICCAD), 2021, pp. 1–9.
[13] J. Leskovec, D. Chakrabarti, J. Kleinberg, C. Faloutsos, and Z. Ghahramani, “Kronecker graphs: An approach to modeling networks,” J. Mach.
Learn. Res., vol. 11, p. 985–1042, Mar. 2010.
[14] J. Leskovec and A. Krevl, “SNAP Datasets: Stanford large network
dataset collection,” http://snap.stanford.edu/data, Jun. 2014.
[15] Y. Low, D. Bickson, J. Gonzalez, C. Guestrin, A. Kyrola, and
J. M. Hellerstein, “Distributed graphlab: a framework for machine
learning and data mining in the cloud,” Proc. VLDB Endow.,
vol. 5, no. 8, p. 716–727, Apr. 2012. [Online]. Available: https:
//doi.org/10.14778/2212351.2212354
[16] R. Nigam, S. Atapattu, S. Thomas, Z. Li, T. Bauer, Y. Ye,
A. Koti, A. Sampson, and Z. Zhang, “Predictable accelerator
design with time-sensitive affine types,” in Proceedings of the 41st
ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and
Implementation, ser. PLDI 2020. New York, NY, USA: Association
for Computing Machinery, 2020, p. 393–407. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3385412.3385974
[17] E. Nurvitadhi, G. Weisz, Y. Wang, S. Hurkat, M. Nguyen, J. C. Hoe, J. F.
Martı́nez, and C. Guestrin, “Graphgen: An fpga framework for vertexcentric graph computation,” in 2014 IEEE 22nd Annual International
Symposium on Field-Programmable Custom Computing Machines, 2014,
pp. 25–28.
[18] T. Oguntebi and K. Olukotun, “Graphops: A dataflow library
for graph analytics acceleration,” in Proceedings of the 2016
ACM/SIGDA International Symposium on Field-Programmable Gate
Arrays, ser. FPGA ’16. New York, NY, USA: Association
for Computing Machinery, 2016, p. 111–117. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2847263.2847337
[19] R. A. Rossi and N. K. Ahmed, “The network data repository with
interactive graph analytics and visualization,” in Proceedings of the
Twenty-Ninth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, ser. AAAI’15.
AAAI Press, 2015, p. 4292–4293.
[20] S. Sahu, A. Mhedhbi, S. Salihoglu, J. Lin, and M. T. Özsu, “The
ubiquity of large graphs and surprising challenges of graph processing,”
Proc. VLDB Endow., vol. 11, no. 4, p. 420–431, Dec. 2017. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3186728.3164139
[21] Z. Shao, R. Li, D. Hu, X. Liao, and H. Jin, “Improving performance of
graph processing on fpga-dram platform by two-level vertex caching,”
in Proceedings of the 2019 ACM/SIGDA International Symposium
on Field-Programmable Gate Arrays, ser. FPGA ’19. New York,
NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2019, p. 320–329.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3289602.3293900
[22] J. Shun and G. E. Blelloch, “Ligra: a lightweight graph processing
framework for shared memory,” in Proceedings of the 18th
ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles and Practice of Parallel
Programming, ser. PPoPP ’13. New York, NY, USA: Association
for Computing Machinery, 2013, p. 135–146. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2442516.2442530

[23] B. Silva, A. Braeken, A. Touhafi, and E. D’Hollander, “Performance
modeling for fpgas: Extending the roofline model with high-level
synthesis tools,” International Journal of Reconfigurable Computing,
vol. 2013, 01 2013.
[24] G. H. Smith, B. Kushigian, V. Canumalla, A. Cheung, S. Lyubomirsky,
S. Porncharoenwase, R. Just, G. L. Bernstein, and Z. Tatlock,
“Fpga technology mapping using sketch-guided program synthesis,”
in Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on
Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating
Systems, Volume 2, ser. ASPLOS ’24. New York, NY, USA:
Association for Computing Machinery, 2024, p. 416–432. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3620665.3640387
[25] Y. Wang, A. Davidson, Y. Pan, Y. Wu, A. Riffel, and J. D. Owens,
“Gunrock: a high-performance graph processing library on the gpu,” in
Proceedings of the 21st ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles and
Practice of Parallel Programming, ser. PPoPP ’16. New York, NY,
USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2016. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2851141.2851145
[26] S. Williams, A. Waterman, and D. Patterson, “Roofline: an insightful
visual performance model for multicore architectures,” Commun.
ACM, vol. 52, no. 4, p. 65–76, Apr. 2009. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/1498765.1498785
[27] Xilinx, “Vitis unified software development platform 2024.1
documentation,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.xilinx.com/
html docs/xilinx2024 1/vitis doc/index.html
[28] Y. Zhang, M. Yang, R. Baghdadi, S. Kamil, J. Shun, and
S. Amarasinghe, “Graphit: a high-performance graph dsl,” Proc. ACM
Program. Lang., vol. 2, no. OOPSLA, Oct. 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3276491
[29] S. Zhou, R. Kannan, V. K. Prasanna, G. Seetharaman, and Q. Wu,
“Hitgraph: High-throughput graph processing framework on fpga,” IEEE
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 30, no. 10, pp.
2249–2264, 2019.

16

